Topic: The danger of mathematical thinking in software
Inductive logic : works for 1, works for 2, works for N. Perhaps
the most powerful generalization technique in all of math.
Falls down badly with s/w. Trouble is it is so appealing
and because software is abstract, we cannot see the "breaking points"
as we would with say, load on a bridge or G forces on an Aircraft
wing for example.

Topic: Entropy for the win
Semi-structured knowledge wins. If no structure at all is would
not be knowledge. (See Borges concept of Library useful becuase
of the books it does not contain.) However, structure - especially
hierarchical structure - difficult to enforce. Can generate 
benefits but at big cost. Then slide down the slope again. Either
because of tag abuse or because of collapse/rebellion.


Topic: The myth of unambiguous algoriths
So much context these days - factors outside the control of the
algorithms, that ambiguity is everwhere. Knuth said "Warning.
Have only proven the program correct. I have not run it."


Topic: Reality is a feature extraction and a regression

Much evidence that reality is not something we sense directly.
Our brains sort of "make up" a hypothesis that fits what our
senses feed it. 
No different than classic regression technique. Extract features
from a sample. Build a formula that fits the feature values.
Part of the fun of this is that different brains extract different
features and thus - have different personal realities. Even if they
features are the same, the regression models are different (many ways
to fit a curve).

In computing, we spend a lot of time modelling. We tend to think
that there is this thing called "reality" and we are creating a useful
subset model to make it tractable. In truth, we are creating a 
model *on top* of another model - our own personal perceptions of "reality"
.
This neatly explains why no two software developers will independently
model any subset of reality the same way.
f

Topic: There is no such thing as a correct model
Firstly, If it was truly correct, it would be indistinguishable from the reality
it is modelling.
Secondly, there are rarely (never?) any modelling situations where there
is exactly *one* correct model.
Topic: The cult of "done"
Getting things done requires forward momentum. Common way to do it
in business is the project plan. But a lot of what we insist on 
creating plans for, cannot really be planned. Software dev
gets a bad rap sometimes (sometimes its totally deserved). Sometimes
- maybe most times, those engaging in software dev know full well
that it cannot be mapped out.

A related - deeper issue - is endeavours where "done" has no real
meaning. We tend to take a "construction" metaphor and extend
it to breaking point. I.e. four walls on a house are done - they are
done. For well constructed house, likely done for many, many years.
Not so with all forms of construction.

Topic: Semantic hysterisis and semantic tectonics

Aboutness is asynchronous. Often find what things are about after
they are created. Filing dilemma. All classification schemes are
wrong. The sooner you apply a semantic filing scheme, more
wrong it will be.


	Topic: Consensus by sleight of hand
		XBRL and RDF
		Both avoid all the hard problems but in different ways

	Topic: Unrolling the feedback loop
	       Complex processes that have feedback loops get linearized.
	       Music dry rooms.
	       Cheese manufacture from pasturized milk - re-introduce bacteria. Fortification.
	       Somebody alway says "something" is lost. But what? And is it real?
	       
	Topic: Perfection considered bad
	       Animation via computer. re-introduce human error.
	       drums - add back in quantization errors
	       Milton Keynes. Too perfect.
	       Not human - but is this just an emotional reaction? Perhaps the chaotic, feedback laden forms invented/evolved by nature are actually better?
	       It is interesting that nature does not bother with "clean room" and linear process decomposition.
	
	Topic:
		Random pattern to theory, to prediction, to rule, to orthodoxy to fundamentalism, to god to revolution ..... cycle repeats
		with some new theory based on a new random pattern. The existence of patterns as evidence of divine intervention - the "why" of patterns.
		Patterns could be some other patterns. Many the ones we have are just accidents?
		For every set of patterns, can propose multiple ways of explaining. As soon as the concept being pattern-ified becomes a bit vague or a bit aesthetic
		becomes impossible to use scientific method to adjudicate.
		Science itself has isolated many of these for us:-) Chaotic systems. Predictivite tests go out the window.

		Pure versus messy impure langyages. Constant upheavals. Music, comp. sci. But over tume the pure gets contanimated. Orwelleian 2 legs good 4 legs bad.
		The only way to stay pure is not to be used :-)


	Topic: Hidden languages
		Example: clauses in contracts that are ambiguous on purpose. Both parties need to known "the game" in order to
		work in this sort of fluidty. Have come to accept that ambiguity is the natural state of pretty much everything.

	Topic: Surface Patterns, Deep Patterns verus meaning
		Surface patterns - get behind them.
		Deep patterns - turns out they are largely arbitrary and disconnected
		In other words the deepest patterns are not patterns at all.


	Topic: Why this book
		The desire for black&white distinctions is ultimately a great source of frustration best let go of. Letting go of it is - unfortulately -
		the same as "giving up" - from a distance. Hence this book. Book aims:
			to get things out of my head and get some peace
			to possibly be helpful to others who might stumble across it and learn from my mistakes or whatever little insights I might have had
			to explain to myself as much as anybody why I no longer care as deeply about some things I used to care deeply about and also
			how I now care a lot about some things I used to not care about at all.
		
	Topic: Complexity Acellerators: More bugs now manageable. Internet, Google, Quora etc. makes it easier to find solution to a problem.
		Quality hasn't improved. Problems are still there. Or maybe quality has improved if the net effect is less downtime?

		Old law states that task expands to fill the time available for it. Maybe there is a shittyness threshold that has been expanded
		by google search, forums etc. We appear to be filling up to the available toleranace for bad software - with workarounds.

		Cloud transition: instead of making it reliable. Hide how it falls over.

		Massive Horizontal Scaling : Ant Colonys


	Topic: The economics of complexlty
		3d printing make certain types of complexity cheap. eg intricate layers.
		software full of maxhines so complex only the original creator can operate.
		Create complexity and then make money taming it.
		Simplicty not always economically advantageous. Market forces cannot always fix it eapecially once dominance achieved.

	Topic: Simplification versus Fabrication

		UIs can Simplify or they can Fabricate. Latter users metaphors that are often wildly at odds with the underlying reality.

		When there is fabrication cannot expect true understanding. When the analogy breaks down, you have nothing.

		Encapsulation considered bad.
		True flexibility comes from being able to hack - in software today, the vast majority of hacking goes back to the original source code.
		We need a higher level of hacking (Pella).


	Topic: There are no right answers.
		all tunings are tradeoffs
		Chaitin - "facts" are not interconnected
		Every partition of realiity is arbitrary

	Topic: Bottoming out complexity
		What if the Buddhist Monk is right and the universe makes iself more complicated
		in response to us examining it.

		Hard to imagine anything more deliciously complex. A complexity worthy of a creator.

	Topic: The art of coding nad the coding of art
		Bill Liao, founder of coder dojo "the best coders are poets"

	Topic: Analog -> Digital -> Analog -> Digital
		Analog world. Digital approximation, yields Analog outputs.
		But Wolfram believes that analog is all realy analog? Simpler formulae, iterated.

	Topic: Accountabilty Considered Harmful
		The tragedy of the conditional mode. Investments in prevention hard in business & in government
		If it works, nothing happens.

	Topic: The unavoidable fact of falsifiable facts
		global warming
		Big spend big now one something that might not be true hard ... even if the probability is so neglibigle as to be effectively 0.
		So much of what we accept every day as fact is actually a little bit short of that
		Apriori truths
		Thomas Kuhn
		Every scientist understands falsifiability but scientists are human.
		same with supreme court justices. Post hic propter hoc.


	Topic: The death of horizontal initiative
		No longer possible to set up a shoe shop or an orange juice bar on your own.
		IT (and perhaps Sports) are perhaps the last places where you really can go from rags to riches with sheer hard work

		The tiered old narrative about capitalism says "if you work hard, you will succeed". Used to be a lot truer than it is now.

	Topic: Retro-active Luck removal
		Tendency for the role of plain old luck to be removed when "history" of a success is replayed. Thomas Kuhn.


	Book: A mind so perfect - it doesn't exist
		Meaning and purpose can be found from any activty - except for the abstract search for meaning and purpose.


	Topic: Logic and Cadences. Aristotle system of syllogisms. Major premise 6m, 2m chords. Minor premise 5/7 chord -> 1M
	Sowa. Knowledge Representation.
	p2

	Topic: Lossy representations and knowledge loss
	The book - is still good as it gets

	Topic: Progressive intelligence fallacy
	Tech makes us "smarter" today. Not mankind in general. No reason to believe that we are.
	Creates an illusion. In truth, only the occassional genius moves the needle. The rest of us just plod along.
	"Progress" is also marketed heavily by the prevailing consumption economy. "Growth"

	Not impossible to have a new dark ages. Remeber the library of Alexandria. Arabs and Celtic Monks retaining Greek knowledge.
	Tons of Celtic music lost : geanntrai, suantrai etc.

	"But", you say, "we have everthing written down...". Not really. Laws, science...increasing stuff never printed out. All bits....all lost with an EMP.

	First major civilization on Earth to leave to trace that it was ever here.

	Standing on the shoulders of 0.0000001 % of mankind

	Topic:
	Mechanized reasoning machine - rotating disks: Ramon Lull. [Ref: Sowa, Knowledge Representation]
	Example: http://www.generativeart.com/on/cic/papersGA2006/45_file/image002.jpg. Compare with image of Circle of Fourths. Compare with image of Pat Martino
		Sacred Geometry: http://truefire.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/sacred9.png
		Compare rotating disk device used to show what chords are in what key
		Getting cogs to line up....Babbage difference engine
		
	Topic: Math, Music and Looms
		Step toward binary from analog stuff of Lull...Jacquuard loom. The mechanical pipe organ (Spiddal). The music box.

	Topic: Ugly facts and beautiful theories
		Aristotle : same guy who did syllogisms stuff...discovered temperement problem. 12th root of two.
		Russell - he of the predicate logic - fell foul of self-reference and now, final nail in the coffin of perfect "order" is Chaitin proving that mathematical
		facts are in some sense random with no underlying chain of logic that will ever be found.
		Logic used to kill itself

		And yet, in Physics, great import is attached to the beauty of a theory.

		There appears to be a necessary progression of beauty to ugly as new facts, ruin it, so to speak

		The aethethic equivalent of the second law of thermodynamics

	Topic: All notations are biased
		Fixation in the software world on brevity. Lost count of the number of sales pitched based around things like "create a fully functional
		website in just X lines of code."
		Notations are biased towards some common expression. If something is to be done over and over gain, make it short to say.
		Downside is that stepping outside of that common expression, you end up with wordy (best), ugly (less best), impossible (worst).
		Example is XSLT - simple things simple, hard things effectively impossible. (By "effectively impossible" I mean not practical. 
		It does not matter that XSLT is Turing Complete.

		So-called "Standard Music Notation" very biased towards (a) Western Music and (b) piano and (c) a certain type of musical composition

		C, F, G7 in Grand Clef notation is the musical equivalent of "hello world" in C programming language. Perfectly formed, illustrates
		most of the key points. Looks beautiful and is succinct.

		As soon as you step away this type of music (e.g. into blues, celtic), or introduce other instruments (strings, drum-kit percussion etc.)
		the notation starts to get complicated and ugly. Best case, the notation becomes inconvenient. Worst case the complexities of the notation 
		cause you to shy away from potentially interesting musical ideas because they are ugly/time-consuming to notate.

		Music theory is ex post facto. It comes after the music is invented. But it is also predictive. The predictive but is both
		powerful and dangerous. The power comes from taking the guess-work out of, say, finding good chords to harmonize a melody line with.
		The risk is that the "rules" used in the prediction make the produced music formulaic and reduced the likely-hood of coming
		up with something truly new and interesting.

		In music. Accidents play a role in creation. So too does raw talent. Raw talent often breaks the moulds in musical forms
		precisely becuase it does not know the rules:-) Some musicians purposely compose on instruments other than their main
		instrument as a way of staying out of ruts. E.g. guitar player composing on piano.

		
		
	Topic: Gaming notation bias with new notations
		Create new notations to process to write out existing ones.
		Very well established in s/w. "I would rather write programs, that write programs, than write programs." Meta programming.
		Curiously, not at all well established in music. DSLs for individual songs or individual styles or even individual artists.  (E.g. James Taylor
		signature sound. Jimmy Hendrix.)

	Topic: Combinatorics, Fractals and hidden order
		Lull's machines show early attempt at taming complexity of conbinations via indepdentently rotating concentric circles.
		Fractal's show an more powerful approach : feedback loop
		Indian Sitar - sympathetic resonance
		Happens to my Bouzouki with I play with an Uilleann piper
		Jimi Hendrix - eletronic feedback loops
		
		Process of analysis of music analagous to analysis of logic. BOTH have got wrapped around the axel of bad notations. Logic less so. E.g. Frege->Pierce->Peano->Russell
		Music notation "stuck" on piano-centric, melody-biased notation. (See separate topic)
		Lack of DSLs for music. Show a simple song as a Domain Specific Language.

	Topic: Complexity Generators
	We tend to think of complexity as bad. It is if it is uncontrolled and you don't know how it works.
		Combinatorics used by Lull to tame complexity but it can also be used to generate it! (Could argue its pseudo-complex) i.e. it looks
		complicated.  SKUs in manufacturing are a good example.
		So too is standard tuning on guitar. Complexity leads to expressive power. 5 chord forms, arpeggios and inversions. Going up/down the "neck"
		of a piano just changes pitch. On guitar, it changes sound cuz of different inversions.
		So too is cooking. Vegetarian indian. Johanna. Manjula. Same classic set of base ingredients. Combinatorics.

	Topic: The why of how and the how of why
		Difference in recipe books. Reference Chinese Gastronomy. Explains why - not just "do this"
		In s/w we often badly confuse these. Encapsulation as a why of insuring ignorance "magic boxes" as opposed to simplyfying
		interface to something that you fully understand how it all works under the hood.

		Some have argued that "why?" questions are dangerous becaause they can lead you to start thinking that there
		is premeditation - a "God" that orgained it to be so. Compare "how is it that...?".

		The latter explains phenomenon X in terms of other phenomena Y without "stepping outside the box"

		The nub of the spirituality question for me comes down to this. If it is necessary to step outside the box in order
		to explain all phenomena then that level, that "thing", that force is "God". Sometimes I think that. 
		But what if you could actually explain everything in terms of a closed system but need to do it with hereneutic cirlces?
		I.e. there is no layering. Everything depends on everything else.
		How cool would that be. So cool, that you might be inclined to think it would need a designer.
		How cool would it be. How perfect would it be if such a designer designed things in such a way that the designer herself
		could then simply disappear into the universe itself. Disappearing from existence but present in every part of it at the same time.
		What could possibly be a more perfect definition of "God"  than an entity so perfect, it does not exist at all?

	Topic: Analogy Breakdown, irreducible complexity and ignorance
		Fields of science, math, computing, so complex it takes decades of dedication to understand them. At which point non-specialists literrally
		cannot follow. So we create analogies. Analogies break down. Much misunderstanding in business comes from analogy breakdown.

	Topic: Picturing a movie
		I used to think, I think in pictures. I no longer thing that. I think in animations. A big part of my personal struggle getting concepts accross
		is that I am trying (often failing) to do a sort of 'key frame animation' of what I see playing in my head.


	Topic: "Musical Key" is like the concept of "Race". Something we think exists but doesn't really - at least not at the fractal boundary.

		For Musical Key - use example of trad tune with a C and and C# or an F and and F# - analogy with optical illusion of the 3D wireframe cube that "hops" between
		two stable states

	Topic: Conceptual Models and Biases
		Example: approaching trad from a key-centric position - not getting the drones. Then the terminology explodes because the terminology itself has an inherent bias.
		All lingustic forms do - they priviledge brevity of expression creating a long tail of corner cases of complexity.
		Rock exampples: Horse with No Name, Foo Fighters Learning to Fly
		Programming languages - zillions. A lot of "sales pitches" for new languages based on how little language is required to say something. Long tail bites always.
		Use XSLT as an example.

	Topic: Perfect imperfections
		Law (say contracts) often have ambiguous bits on purpose. Rather than try to bottom it out and run into the fractal, the parties to the contract
		are basically taking a calculated risk. Rather than take on the expense (and possible futility) of bottoming it out, punt that to arbitration/court
		if it occurs.
	
	Topic: The theory of untestable beauty

		non-empirical theory confirmation. Quantum mechanics. Physics and math merging into the same discipline.
		Math does not need to have a practical aspect. You have a set of axioms, then equations, then derive new truths within the symbol system.
		Many very useful branches of math started out in this "pure form"
		Maybe same will happen with String Theory - maybe one day it will be testable. Admittedly it is hard to envision being able to craft self-contained
		experiments that are necessarily the size and complexity of a multi-verse but who knows.

		Relationship of non-empirical theory confirmation to consilence.

		Examples in history of theories that were beautiful but wrong. Leadign to the classic "for every problem, there is a solution that is simple, elegant
		and wrong".  See Helge Kragh on the steady state universe and on vortex theory

	Topic: The solution resistant universe
		Our brains can percieve highly abstract forms of beauty. Yet the more we probe and understand the universe, the more deeper complexities arise.
		Decomposition, it appears, does not bottom out.
		I read a Buddhist essay once, I cannot remember the author or the title of the essay now, but thus Buddhist Scholar made the amazing
		statement that the universe *responds* to our introspections by becoming more complicated. Humans create cosmological complexltity by
		probing it.


	Topic: Hermeutic Circles
		Any intellectual activity we think of as an "art" is really another way of saying "we don't understand how it
		is done". The intellectual aspects of being a brain surgeon, a music composer, a lawyer, an investor, fall
		into this category.

		I have a theory that all such arts have something in common : hermeneutic circles. This is no dominant decomposition.

		Figuring out how music works is one such hermeneutic circle.

		Wicked problems have these in 'em

		The dominant decomposition manifests in listening too. Can listen to the whole musical piece. Can listen for the rhythm. Can listen for the
		baseline. Can listen for the melody. Can listen for the harmonies. None of these is "on top"

	Topic: The art is giving me the blues
		Not the skill itself - technical acquisition.
		Ability to evoke emotions in the beholder. In that sense, artists are like doctors/chemists.

		Where does the art come from?
		Thus when people say, programming an art what does that mean? I think it means art in the negative sense in which that term
		is used. It is an art because it is non-deterministic.

		Note that it is true that true art is often non-deterministic too. Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen etc. they do not know where the good songs come from.

		Likely multiple ways of forcing it to happen. Sheer bloody minded effort is one of them. How many lines did Yeats write compared to the ones
		he published, compared to the ones that have stood the test of time as "good"?
		(aside: this is also a good way of making "luck". The more I practice, the luckier I get)

		Another way is "struggle". Seamus Ennis on Uillean pipes.
			https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aF3fW4Nox9U&feature=youtu.be
			Compare Jack Whites in "This Might Get Loud" about struggle. Use of dodgy guitars.

		It pushes all my buttons. Can easily make me cry if I have not had enough coffee. Esecially the bend note at 50 seconds.
		Theory of origin of the Blues. Daoie Goirme.

	Topic: Context is king
		Cannot learn a note or a chord and fully "hear what it sounds like" because its sound in isolation is just the tip of the
		iceberg of its expressive power.
			Wittgenstein: “Understanding a sentence means understanding a language.”
		Example from The Band Played Walzing Matild? (copyright)
		No such thing as a wrong note - only a bad resolution.
		On top of that, our brains wire themselves up differently depending on our auditory environment. If you are born, say, in India and surrounded
		by Carnatic music you will develop a much, much better ear for it. Be able to hear its subtleties and enjoy them. Basically
		your musical brain develops an "accent"
		Kripke: names as social constructs. Another way of saying that names are context dependent. See this in music where
		chord names often do not help to understand. Name depends on function e.g. same chord multiple names, all "right" but some help and some do not.
		Kripke example is Hespherous - Phosurus  (same star, one in night sky, one in morning sky)
		Perlis: understand first by humans, secondarily by computer.

	Topic: Asymptotic notations - finger pointing at the moon
		The gist of a tune.
		Irish Trad an example where you really have to listen to a player play it. Mecanical renderings sound very wooden.
		Not possible to capture.
		Actually, each performance is different. Best any notation can do is to get close to it.
		Think of a tune as a fractal. Inside is "this tune" outside is "other music that is not this tune". But the boundary
		is fuzzy. See thesession.org for "settings" indicative of this fractal boundary.

		Concept of predicate calculus being "ontologically neutral". Not biased to any type of knowledge. So too with music notation..kind of.
		Western Music notation is biased - towards western music.
		Also biased towards piano : two staffs + bias towards the key of C

		However, once you get past that, you can layer any western music on top of it. Assembly language. Neutral. Blues Harmoica or Bouzouki backing
		in celtic. Equally bad at both. Bad in two ways:
			- doesn't capture it - just play back a MIDI file and you will see what I mean
			- doesn't help musicians to grok it, internalize it.

		Leads to odd phenomenon where some classically trained musicians cannot play without "the dots" on front of them

		Pragamtists invent their own notations:
			Joni Mitchell's representation of tunings
			Nashville Notation
			Jazz Symbols

		Note that for Jazz, the symbols disappear after a while. Players see "what is really going on" in terms of 2-5-1 progressions, functioning dominants
		etc. Reminiscent of the comment about Lisp that after a while you don't even see the brackets.

		Sight readers do that too. They are like "lookahead compilers" of assembly language, they eye glides over the music coming up and picks out
		phrases at a level above mere notes.

		Listen to Michael Finnegan of Flook. There is no way he is thinking single notes. He is thinking phrases.


	Topic: Notating for machines versus notating for humans
		Alan Perlis. Programs should be written to be understood primarly by other humans and incidentally by machines

		Staff-based music notation, tab-based is like assembly languge - imperative - "do this"
		Programming langs - since asssembly language - have tried to encoding meaning to help the human understand it. Beat cognitive limits with power powerful
		expression primitives. *Some* exist in music e.g. 6 2 5 1 progression. Andelussian cadence. Neapolitan sixth.

	Topic: Big White Lies
		Project manages hate non-determinism. Strategies for making progress include the idea of lying, creating on purpose, a silly simplistic
		conceptual model, as the only way to get something progressed.
		Torn on this.
		Story of movie director. Throw in boring films that are delivered on time on budget so that you can get the money for the ones you really want
		to make which are much higher risk/reward ratios.

	Topic: The consequences of hermeneutic circles
		Chords scales etc. all interconnected.
		Infinite combinations
		Then add guitar. Finite size but infinite combinations.

		Results in no single linear path.
		Everyone goes on their own journey.
		It doesnt end.
		If the term spirituality means anything, it is in this.
		Throw in consciousness itself influencing the unfolding of the very path you are trying to follow, and you have a reality worthy of a Creator.

	Topic: Beliefs and facts
		Russell Paradox
		Chaitin on disconnected nature of math truths
		Moral relativism and fractal boundries of all rule-based systems
		Shades of gray

	Topic: Binary Dualisms / Law of the Excluded Middle
		Good / Bad -> Fractal Boundary
		Good / Bad -> Derrida/Godel/Russel - turn problem onto itself via self-reference


	Topic: saying versus showing / Reality in totality / 
		Negative space
		fractal boundary
		finger pointing at the moon
		music - 3 harmonic points in musical space in, say, D Major
		Use partial chords to "point" to that harmonic point. More subtle and pleasing and great scope for variation.
		The "dabbing" at melody notes essentially acts as a harmonic "tug" on the ear toward the 1,4,5 "foci" of musical space.
		Use "strange attractors" as an example.

	Topic: Recipes versus knowledge
		Cargo Cults Richard Feynman
		Software is recipe not knowledge
		
	Topic: Simplistication
		"Simplistication" The process by which things are overly simplified, leading to simplistic designs
		design thinking = make it easy for the user with no knowledge
		Guitar is brilliant illustration of the artfully constructed compromise.
		Ease of use can easily result in loss of expressive power.
		Computing is littered with it. Reduce things to 1 button. Dont make me think. User interfaces by
		definition inject a different conceptual model. Users dont learn the underlying. They learn the abstraction. When
		the abstraction breaks down they are stuck.
		utility thinking = make it easy for the user who knows that shortcuts are convenience, nothing else

		At its worst when the right action is taken for the wrong reason and it works:-/ Example,
		Dan McCarthy straightening the electrical cable. Not a firehose. Yet it worked.

	Topic: Strange Attractions
		Could not see how Em above a series of notes made it Em - especially when not all the notes where in the chord called Em.
		Took a long time for it to sink in. First to 'hear the changes' and then to come up with some way
		of explaining to myself what 'hear the changes' really means.
		Lorentz Attractors. Loci around which the melody rotates, but then "jumps" to another loci.
		Music plays with your brains short term memory. Throws notes in the air. Repeats some, most likely skipping over some entirely.
		Then, as the music progresses, your brain is keeping a sort of mentaly tally for which notes are dominating the frequency distribution.
		There is normally one that is way above the others - it becomes the tonic note. The intervals are established, like wave patterns
		of electronics. Probability distrubitions. Magenatic waves cretes around a magnet by metal particles. From that comes the key = pitch set.
		Of course, straght music notation totally does not help you see any of that. It is assembly language.
		A good DSL for a musical piece would as you would be able to see the phrases.

	Topic: D.C. Al Coda - Goto considered bad
		I was a young student when I first heard about Dikjstra and "structured programming" and GOTO statement of BASIC
		was considered evil.
		Music notation has these. D.C. Al Coda and D.C. Al Fine.

	Topic: The Illusion of Progress
		also, reality is a set of relations, not things.
		Wittgentein said facts not things
		Buddha said annata

		IT is making this more true every day with vitualization. Email sending is a good example. English comes up short in describing digital life.
		We adopt analogies like E Mail but the analogies break down.
	
		Another great example is authenticity and the concept of digital signature
	
		http://m.faz.net/aktuell/feuilleton/forschung-und-lehre/interview-with-luciano-floridi-we-need-a-new-definition-of-reality-13850667.html

	Topic: The Opposite of Progress

		Much software not demonstrably better just more of. and different.

		World ibcreasingly runs on software nobody understands

		Reminiscent of works of art. we look at the pyramids and ask 'how?'. We look at paintings of the old masters and
		ask 'how?'. We listen to J. S. Bach and ask the same. The works of art do not instruct us as to how to replicate.

		Most software is the same. unique works of art. Sometimes collaborative on a vast scale.

		Master plan not in the code. Sometimes there is no master plan. Often reminds me of Bebop jazz or Carnatic music. Only a top level notion of a plan.

		Then afterwards retroactive goal setting kicks in. Academics crawl over it.
		
		Rip and replace. NIH but also indirect expression of impenetrability of the source code.

		Having the source code is like having the sheetmusic. No conceptual model.

	Topic: Unintended Secrets
		Knowledge representation. Knowledge is not words, or pictures. If it was, we could capture it. Any mental model worthy of "knowledge" always
		looses something - sometimes a lot - in translation into froms the allow it to be communicated to others.

		Have always been struck by the disconnect between what music really is, and the notations used to talk about it. Took me a decade, feeling like
		a detective, trying to get behind cryptic notations.

		I don't think that it is necessarly obtuse. Accidents of history. Then they STICK. I.e. once you get it. you cannot be bothered trying
		to find something better. E.g. QWERTY keyboards.
		To paraphrase Churchill, music notation is the worst way in the world to denote music, except for all the others.

		Take one example. The musical concept of an "interval". Measurement is in seconds, thirds, fifths.... Two problems:
			The normal laws of addition don't apply: e.g. a 5th+4th = 8th
			The normal laws of distance don't apply a 1 to a 5 is s "fifth" but the opposite, a 5 to a 1 is a 4th.


		Here is how I finally created a mental model for myself to make sense of this:
		Spirals: http://www.3dcadbrowser.com/th/1/13/13121.jpg

		This feeling of having to decrypt can lead to a feeling that there is a force at work, for some unknown reason, making things cryptic.
		Can also lead to a feeling that breaking throught it, can be seen as some sort of rite of passage.
		From there, it is a short hop to some wilde and wacky stuff. Just google Spiral and Music.

		Pat Martino Sacred Geometry

		Many revered scientists have gone off the rails. 
			Newton spent a long time working out exact measurements of the Temple of Solomon, which he claimed would allow him to predict
			the exact date of the apocalypse.
			Crick belives DNA arrives from space, put here by aliens : direct panspermia

	Topic: Notations power to obfusticate
		Mixo and Dorian really straightforward concepts known by diatonic instrument players.
		Gets called "Mixolydian", then somebody remarked that they refused to belive that illiterate Irish peasasts were playing
		composing and playing mixolydian. But that is to confuse a name that sounds like something is "advanced" with the thing itself.
		All notations are biased. All notations have a point-of-view.

	Topic: The tragedy of excellence
		Musicians who work for decades - play for peanuts. Especially, Jazz Guitarists
		In software, if you make something really simple. Really, really simple. Value has a way of disappearing.
		Especially if you make the new features completely transparent. I.e. you don't have to do anything different.
		Then it becomes "it looks like it always did. Nothing appears to have changed." Why would I pay a lot for that.
		Same for, say terrorism security.

	Topic: The tragedy of competence
		All life forms can be said to crave stimulation. Some are sated by the items required for life itself: food.
		Others are wired to crave more than that. It could be classified as a disease. Need a regular "fix" of intellectial stimulation.
		All artists suffer from this. Have this disease. The constant need to do something new.
		Being a professional artist however, generally means learning to live with boring repetition.
		Unless you are so famous you can get away with constant change/variation e.g. Bob Dylan.
		Or unless your musical form is all about improv i.e. bebop jazz

		Software is great place to be if you crave stimulation. If you are doing it right, every day (with some exceptions I will get to), you are
		doing something that not only have you 	never done before, but nobody has every done before.
		Because of the 0-cost of replication, if this precise thing already existed you would just copy it, at 0 cost.

		The 0 cost is the exception. You might have to re-create if license costs or integration costs too high.

		Explains why great thinkers in universities, often make the worst lecturers. Anybody can teach a course first time round but only
		somebody with a specific interest in education (as opposed to the subject matter of the lectures) is going to be good at it, second time around
		when all the material is being repeated.

	Topic: Meta Puzzles
		s/w is like making a puzzle, then trying to solve it. every project, every day consists of creating new puzzles (design).
		Innovation, in software often comes down to making a new puzzle, sufficiently complex to generate something new in the world - something of value,
		but not so complex that you cannot solve it i.e. bring that new thing into the world.
		Many art forms have this "make-a-puzzle then solve it"
		Bach fascination with numerology. Creating a puzzle. Then solving it. Same for Haiku. Same for Iambic Pentameter. 12 bar blues.
		A problem - a set of constraints - forces innovation. Necessity is the mother of invention.
		Science does the same? Every "I wonder?...." is a puzzle being formed.
		Engineering is about minimizing non-determinism is solving puzzles.
		The more non-deterministic, the greater the risk.
		Software very much caught with one foot in art and one foot in engieering. Shows most acutely in time/cost estimations
		as the unknowns (especially the "unknown unknowns" are often acute.)

	Topic: Gaming the universe
		Use evolution, use iteration as a way of dealing with non-determinism.
		Use Monte Carlo Simulations where the Simulations are "real projects" to find good outcomes.
		This is how, say, music industry has worked. Back lots of horses. Most will fail but those that win, win big and result in a NET positive.
		The "half kelly"
		It is now VC's work in Silicon Valley.
		You could interprete the mullti-verse as being the ultimate example of this. Every cause and effect that results from consciousness (free will) is
		another experiment. Take a binary decision. The multi-verse kicks off two instances one where you took the red pill, so to speak. One where
		you took the blue pill. This is reminiscent of the Buddhist concept of the universe being perfect. The world we live in, is perfect it the
		sense that it is the logical and inevitable result of the causes and conditions in this particular "fork" of the multiverse


	Topic: Creating Creativity
		Many examples of frameworks that allow infinite possibilities. The game of Go. The iChing.
		Carnatic music. Ragas. Combinatorical expolosions. Man made puzzle space of breathtaking size.
		Bach's "for the glory of God". It is possible to have spiritual experiences in any of these creativity frameworks. One way to "feel" the awe of 
		the infinite is to glimpse it by having flashes of the sheer size, and grandeur of it.
		This is not limited at all to art. Mathematics - a framework about as scientific as they come - is, it seems, a bottomless pit of discoveries
		yet to be made. Chaitin however, points out that the glories of math are not all interconnected. Its a bit like looking for an underlying order
		in a partical cloud where the clumping together of matter, hither and dither is just the result of the laws of physics, not an indication of
		any higher order.

	Topic: Deferring Complexity Collapse
		Web and google in partic, have extended the life of ridiculously complex software by making it possible to essentially find every snippet of knowledge
		on obsure problems.
		The danger though is that it really is just a deferring. If it wasn't for google, it would have collapsed by now under the weight of its own
		man-made complexity. There will come a point, when this can no longer save us.
		
		Another deferral mechanism which is rampant - is re-write. I.e. relearn it and re-do it from scratch. Again, this has been hidden from
		direct view by the rapid progress in hardware. But what if/when that slows down. I.e. no longer compelling reasons to re-write to take 
		advantage of, say, multi-core CPUs in cell phones.

		But it is starting. So many startups these days are tinkering around the edges. Another reason for that is that the big infra stuff that 
		so many applications now depend on is beyond any garage startup. REference the quote about hedge funds and the opportunity to create a
		new one is gone.

	Topic: Identifying identifiers
		- The identifier you can read
		Nouns and verbs are a very powerful tool. Expressive power combinatorics kicks in when the relationship of nouns to verbs
		is polymorphic. Simply put, a small set of verbs can apply to a big set of nouns. RESTian.

		- The identifier you cannot read
		64 bit numbers in the relational databases. In Relational database theories, the one true identifier does not have to mean anything
		because all access is mediated through its attributes. So the "name" of a thing is just the "name" attribute and no different
		from any other attribute such as "weight" or "color".
		This plays out over and over again in XML/SGML

		Another form of this is hash codes, content addressible stores. Staging a come-back.

		- The identifier you can hum
		John Blakes ingenious scheme of naming jigs and reels
		Rigid Designation
`		Concept of "settings" of tunes. Surprisingly thorny question of how much you can change it and for it to still be the same tune.
		Hofstadter's argument with Knuth about Metafont
		Zen concept of Annata - nothing exists independently
		Malinke concept of indirect reference
		Visual art concept of negative space
		Negative space technique use by Witttgenstein to try to show that which cannot be shown directly

		- The identifier you can navigate
		HyTime - TreeLoc/Ladders
		Malinke

	Topics: Dynamic interpretation of static identifiers
		Bertrand Russell
		Are proper nouns just query expressions in disguise


	Topic:	Musical Grammers and Idioms
		can decompose trad into a hierarchical decomp. Not unlike the grammar of a human or a computer language.

		The grammars are then sources of surprise when the "standard pattern" is broken.
	
		call and response
		deceptive cadence

		I wonder if this playful desire for surprise has played a role in the endless "imperfections" of human languages.

		Beauty and perfection are often subtle. Buried deep.

		Languages are not nouns and verba etc. They are idioms. So too in music. Lispers say that after a while ypu no longer see the parens. Mary Bergin no longer sees the 			individial notes. She sees entire phrases, idioms. Computer languages are like that. They mostly seek to allow you to give atomic names to phrases and idioms.
		To my mind, the importance of math in this is easiĺy over stated. functions.


	Topic: Meta Tools
		I would rather write programs to write programs, than write programs.
		Interesting how quickly complexity can be formed here by introducing a loop.
		Stephen Wolfram. New kind of science. Essential idea is that there no value in setting down to invent something complicated.
		Invent something simple and iterate it.
		Maybe we can "grow" a Symphony?
		What if a musical phrase had TWO meanings. The first being the notes to be played. The second being the program to run to generate the
		next series of notes to be played. Now what happens if the generated notes are also interpreted in this two-level model?
		

	Topic: The bottomless configuration problem
		CLASSPATH
		A has a config B
		Invent C to automate creation of config B
		C has a config D
		Invent E to automate creation of config D
		...
		SGML - endless configuration problems


	Topic: 
